[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>LISA GARR: Do you
want to know how
to be in the right
place at the right time?
We can actually control
that with our thoughts.
And now, it doesn't
happen overnight.
You have to show up every day.
You have to be deliberately
focused on your dreams.
You have to turn your
thoughts into things
with your daily practice.
That is very important.
This is the teaching of Mike
Dooley, a New York Times
bestselling author and creator
of the wildly popular Notes
from the Universe, which I love.
It is a philosophical
Adventurers Club
that's now home to over
800,000 online members.
You can be one too.
Welcome.
>>MIKE DOOLEY: Hey, Lisa.
Great to be here.
>>LISA: I get your
notes every day.
And I know you hear
this all the time.
But it always speaks
directly to me.
It hits me in the
middle of the night.
For some reason, it
comes in when I'm typing.
Intentionally?
>>DOOLEY: You stay up late.
>>LISA: I do.
It comes in around
1:00 in the morning.
And I love it.
Because I'm sitting
here typing away.
And then, how did
he know I was up?
But anyway, thank you for those.
>>DOOLEY: You're welcome.
It's an honor.
>>LISA: They're amazing.
And I'm sure you
hear this a lot.
>>DOOLEY: It's always
good to hear it again.
So thank you so much.
>>LISA: Where did "Notes
from the Universe" come from?
>>DOOLEY: They emerged from
really the most difficult time
of my life.
It was like my dark
night of the soul.
It was right at the turn
of the millennia in 1999
going into 2000.
And I had just
liquidated a business.
I was about to turn 40, which
I thought was old at the time.
I know better now.
>>LISA: You were a CPA, right?
>>DOOLEY: Well, in the
earlier, earlier incarnation
I was with Price Waterhouse for
six years doing tax as a CPA.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>DOOLEY: Then 10 years
selling t-shirts and gifts
with my mother and brother.
The t-shirts had my brother's
art but my little sayings
about life, dreams,
happiness, visualize,
picture in your mind the end
results, and things like that.
And I really wished I
could reach more people.
Because we even had a
following of our souvenir
novelty t-shirts and
gifts just for the stuff
that I would write on them,
as well as my brother's art.
He was quite popular as well.
But by the end of 10 years,
the trends were declining.
We decided to liquidate
for pennies on the dollar.
I put my accountant's
visor on and realized
I could coast for two years
before I'd run out of money,
wouldn't be able to
make my mortgages.
And while that might
sound like a long time,
I didn't know what I was going
to do with the rest of my life.
I was really, really scared.
I would pray on my knees
at the side of my bed
every single night to God.
It's the universe
when I'm happy.
It's God when I'm scared.
--for direction and guidance.
And I would bemoan, how could
this have happened to me?
By 40, I thought I'd be
just living in the dream.
But I had nothing.
I had nothing other than my home
and two years' worth of savings
to coast.
And I wanted to
receive inspiration.
And I was way into
metaphysical thinking.
And nobody was sending
it out that I knew.
And I thought, maybe
I should do this.
You teach best what
you most need to learn,
as Richard Bach said.
And I thought, I'm going to
send out inspiration, as Mike,
and see where it goes.
And admittedly, in
hindsight I can tell you,
compared to writing
Notes from the Universe,
writing as Mike was
never a big hit.
But I got enough confirmation
and enough feedback,
enough gratitude saying, I
look forward to Mondays now.
I hope you're saving
these for a book one day.
I was like, wow, really?
>>LISA: Great idea.
>>DOOLEY: Yeah.
And so because I did that,
because I did what I could
with what I had,
something I teach now,
which always seems insufficient.
It always sometimes
seems embarrassing.
It's like, this is
not who I really am.
I'm just doing
this to bide time.
It made possible the evolution
of my Monday morning motivators
into a daily email,
Daily Wisdom from Mike,
which made possible
me surrendering
to this inner feeling
that I kept having.
If I wrote as the
universe, I could say more
and it would be more impactful.
I thought that was arrogant.
I thought it was presumptuous.
I mean, who am I to write
as divine intelligence?
But I finally surrendered
to the feeling on a Friday.
I wrote something that--
it always surprises
me what I write.
Not that I channel it
in a streaming way.
But everything is channeled.
It's just difficult for me.
Instead of just
journaling it out,
like maybe Neale Donald
Walsh says he does,
it might take me four hours.
But at the end of
four hours, I'm
like, wow, that's really good.
And I wrote the
very first note was
something about, your attention
please, your attention please.
This is the universe today.
I'll be recording your every
thought and emotion, no matter
how good or bad, no
matter how generous
or stingy, no matter how
helpful or hurtful they may be.
And everything I record
will be played back for you
as soon as possible as some
type of physical manifestation
in time and space.
Thank you.
That is all.
>>LISA: --the universe.
>>DOOLEY: --the
universe, the universe.
And immediately, I saw
that it was not arrogant.
I saw that it could be light.
I saw that it could be fun.
>>LISA: And truthful.
>>DOOLEY: I saw that
there was room for humor.
And truthful, that was
the most important thing.
To say something that
we probably all read
before, but in a
slightly different way
that it gets your
attention and maybe stays
with you until the next
note from the universe
on the next weekday.
Because I take weekends off.
And the humor presented itself.
If Mike writes you an email and
punctuates it with "You rock.
Mike," it's like,
who is this Mike guy?
And get off your cloud.
But if the universe writes you
an email, you question it less.
And you surrender.
And humor, when
the universe says
"you rock," the universe, which
some have said, it's levity.
And it's like,
yeah, that's right.
That's what I'm talking about.
That's the kind of world
and divine intelligence
I live amongst.
And they became and
still are really popular.
They grow by word of
mouth, as you've said.
I have 800,000 subscribers.
>>LISA: That is phenomenal.
One idea, one idea.
>>DOOLEY: Which I
would have thought
was stupid if I just sat on my
couch waiting for a good idea.
But because I started writing
as Mike, it set me up to I'll
just test it out on one day.
And that's the key to living
the life of your dreams.
You've got to go down these
sucky dirt paths, I call them,
before they'll turn into
the yellow brick road.
>>LISA: But how many of
us have had that one idea
and we threw it away?
And you did it.
>>DOOLEY: It's very scary.
>>LISA: Yeah.
Think of all those
ideas we've thrown away.
And you made the difference
in millions of people's lives.
And they live for those notes.
And they're humorous.
And I do feel that humor
gives us a different energy
for something to come in on.
It's like a conveyor belt.
>>DOOLEY: People open up.
They are accepting.
And it has worked out.
>>LISA: Yeah, it has worked out.
And then as you did
The Secret-- you
were one of the wonderful
future teachers in The Secret.
And that also took
a whole other level.
>>DOOLEY: Yeah.
That kind of raised
the bar quite a bit.
Changed my profile.
Made possible more books.
Made possible larger
audiences in my world tours.
I was touring and writing
before The Secret.
But that took it
to another orbit.
>>LISA: So in your tours
all over the world,
did you find that people
all over the world
had the same problems
and they wanted
the same things, no matter
what culture, what language?
>>DOOLEY: Basically, yes.
Absolutely the
same, whether Moscow
or Capetown or Johannesburg
or Kuala Lumpur.
But there are differences.
There's definitely
a strong energy
that comes from a population.
And I find some places
that's a bit more elevated,
a bit finer of a vibration.
There's more joy in
Africa, ironically,
where I'm asked, what about
the poor people in Africa?
Do their thoughts become things?
It's like, you don't have to
worry about the poor people
in Africa.
They're into family.
They're into the present moment.
They're into joy.
And they're not following
social media like we are,
at least when I was there.
>>LISA: They're
dancing, and this.
>>DOOLEY: Yeah.
And there's
different priorities.
But basically, so the
same, so the same.
Basically wanting
more happiness.
And they might recognize
that in Africa more.
How can we take this up
and include everybody?
Whereas here-- and this has
become a big part of what I
teach--
we think we know how
to get to happiness.
I call them the cursed hows.
We think the new house, the
job title, the perfect partner,
or the perfect body.
We mess with the cursed hows ad
nauseum in the Western world.
Whereas in other parts of
the world, there's more of,
I want joy.
I want more freedom, more
financial freedom even.
That's OK.
Rather than dollar
amounts and deadlines,
where we are into the
minutiae to such a degree
we forget for our happiness.
And we've lost sight
of what it's all about.
>>LISA: Yes, it is true.
I mean, we have this
lack, the sense of lack,
as we're one of
the most abundant.
>>DOOLEY: Poverty
of consciousness.
>>LISA: Yes, yes.
The countries that feel like
they have been labeled poverty,
they have richness
and abundance.
And it's not like
that completely 100%.
That's what you're
here to talk about is
how you can change that reality,
whatever your reality is.
But there is a tool
that we all have.
And we can use it
as a sword, or we
can use it as something that
makes us the happiest person
in the world.
And it's right here.
And it's free.
>>DOOLEY: Yeah.
Our thoughts become things.
And it's the end all, be all.
It is not a sometimes thing.
It works with all
of our thoughts.
Although, our positive
thoughts are more inclined to
more quickly become the things
and events of our lives.
It's a tangent we can look at.
But it overrules karma.
And there's a place for a
conversation about karma.
It overrules ancient
spiritual contracts.
There's a place for that.
It overrules life lessons.
It overrules archetype.
>>LISA: Really?
>>DOOLEY: You choose in the
moment what to focus on.
And it's those
thoughts alone that
will become the things
and events of our lives.
And not getting the degree
to which this is true,
the degree of its absoluteness,
we give our power away.
It's like, well, maybe it wasn't
my thoughts becoming things.
Maybe it was the
universe's desire for me.
Or maybe it was, I was a
pirate in the 12th century.
And maybe-- so there
goes your power.
It was not those things.
>>LISA: OK, I gotta
tell you this.
Because OK, what if it's
other people's agendas?
I really want this one thing,
but this other person's
blocking it.
Can I influence that
person with my thoughts?
>>DOOLEY: If you're
a micromanager,
you're going to have trouble
with other people getting
in your way.
Because you're
going to think they
need to behave in a certain way.
And you're going to
think your happiness is
something they might hold the
key to, or part of the key to.
And it's really infuriating.
Obviously we do this
in relationships
or when seeking
the ideal person.
We know 200 people.
And we think, oh,
it's gotta be her.
It's gotta be Trixie.
I know it's Trixie.
If we zero in on Trixie,
we have excluded 7 and 1/2
billion other characters.
And the way to do
that is not so much
try to influence other people.
Although, we certainly
can influence other people
if they're open to it.
It is up to them.
They might shut it down.
And if they were your
gateway, your gatekeeper,
you're out of luck.
But instead, if you define
the end result wisely,
the end result is not Trixie.
It is a rocking relationship,
a travel partner with benefits,
or whatever it is that
you want to describe.
In the instant you get
that kind of clarity
with the end result
in a partner,
or a business partner,
a parcel, an investment,
financial abundance,
the universe
is like, I know how to do that.
There are 7 and 1/2
billion co-creators.
These are in alignment with you.
These are not.
We're going to shift
around the stage.
Unless you say, no,
it's gotta be Trixie.
And then you shut the door
on all other possibilities.
Or you think, oh, it's
Trixie or Bob or Bruno who's
going to give me a leg
up in the industry.
All of a sudden you've
given them so much power.
And then, yes, oh
my god, you need
to influence them if you can.
But you might not be able to.
Instead, go to the big
picture end result,
the general area of your life
you'd like transformation in.
And then work it to the
best of your ability.
Go out with Trixie.
Be kind to Bruno.
Knock on doors.
Turn over stones.
And this way, you
leave your idea
of the best option on the table.
We're not excluding
Trixie or Bruno.
But you leave the door
open for even better.
And not that there are
better people, obviously.
But there are better partners
for what your interest is.
And they can now reach you.
Because you've painted the
picture as a general end
result. You got excited
about it with the minutiae.
You have the vision boards
and the affirmations.
There's a great place
for all of that stuff,
for emotional enthusiasm
and ramping up anticipation.
And then you need to show up,
show up, and show up and not
confuse your idea of the
house, your idea of the whos,
your idea of the whens with
the transformation you're most
in search of.
>>LISA: So it really
is the universe really
has a big part in this for you.
It's not just your thoughts.
It's really your thoughts and
the universe playing together.
>>DOOLEY: There's really
only you and more you.
And there is no
universe out there.
That's kind of an old trade-off
from, God's out there, angry,
jealous, testing,
and judging us.
And it's like, no,
no, no, no, no, no.
Something far closer to truth is
that the universe is out there
adoring you, wanting for you
what you want for yourself.
But even that is a metaphor.
Even that is false.
The universe is in here.
We are in here.
You're in here.
We're living our dramas
and our adventures
out right now inside of God.
And we are, more
accurately, God come alive
in the dream of life.
And you're just another
part of that God.
I'm a part of that God.
We're really one.
Talk about
reincarnational families.
It's me and you and
everybody watching right now.
There's no separation.
There's no delineation.
So to say that it's about your
thoughts engaging the universe
is true.
It's your thoughts
engaging your higher self
and these metaphysical
principles that
are absolutely unfailing.
Namely, our thoughts become the
things and events of our lives.
And to present yourself,
or avail yourself of,
such manifestations you need to
hold onto the vision, the end
result, the big
picture transformation,
get into the details,
knock on doors,
show up, press the flesh,
make some cold calls,
move your feet.
And then there's all of this
wiggle room and latitude
for mindblowing coincidences.
There ain't no such thing.
Serendipities, accidents
that might seem bad at first.
But everything is
a setup for better.
Everything, everything
is a setup for better.
We are eternal gladiators
of love and joy.
>>LISA: That is amazing.
Yes, we really are co-creating.
And we're really actually
orchestrating the whole thing.
And all of the thoughts-- so
we just had these last three
amazing days.
And everything worked
out in this puzzle piece
that we could never have
possibly imagined it to be.
And we thought at the
time it was a catastrophe.
And oh my goodness,
what happened?
And then at the end
of the three days,
we just said to ourselves, we
couldn't plan this any better.
So are you saying that we
actually planned all of that
with our thoughts of what we
actually wanted as the outcome?
>>DOOLEY: The way that works is
you had little micromanaged end
results.
And we do have to do that
to get through a day.
I'm going to be here at
such and such a time.
I need to make a phone call.
And that's all fine and good.
It's when we think,
that call didn't come
and it's the end of the world.
And then we deflate
our anticipation.
And we no longer feel optimism.
And then we put further away
the ultimate end result.
Your real end results are a
rocking life, a rocking career,
harmony with those on your
team at home and in the field.
And those end results
that you believe in,
that you move with, that
are dressed up with pictures
on a vision board
or affirmation,
are pressing to you all of the
serendipities and the logistics
that will ultimately
blow your mind.
But those you cannot control,
other than you ordained them
with end results
that required them.
That's how you manipulate the
circumstances of your life.
But that's always beyond
your field of awareness,
beyond our comprehension.
Our brain knows in design
to manage these logistics,
account for these logistics,
prepare for these logistics.
>>LISA: It can't.
>>DOOLEY: It cannot do that.
We have to assess
and pass judgment
on what we like in our life and
what we don't like in our life.
And there's nothing
unspiritual about saying,
I don't like this bucket but
I really love this bucket.
And when we find a
bucket we don't like,
we change the end
result. We raise the bar.
I want harmony in
my relationships.
I want healing in my body.
I want money in the bank.
Those are great end results.
And then show up, show up.
Do your little lighthearted
micromanagement, but not
with attachment.
Attach to the big picture.
Attach to joy.
Attach to abundance.
Attach to healing.
And settle for nothing less.
But when it comes
to showing up--
and I'm going to try
to get this interview,
to meet that person,
and I'm and try to
host this event,
and I'm going to try
to write that book--
do it to the best
of your ability.
Be all in.
But leave room for even better.
Leave room for a surprise.
And when the circumstances
disappoint, or break
your heart, or
whatever they may be,
know that there's a
greater good in alignment
with your ordained end results.
And we have natural
end results to thrive.
So we don't even have to--
what is my big picture
transformation going to be?
If you're hurting for
money, that's a good one.
>>LISA: OK, start there.
>>DOOLEY: If you're
like, everything's cool
and I really love my
life, well, then just
keep living your life.
And your divine sense
of incompletion,
which we're all endowed
with, which we often think
is a curse.
Like, am I never satisfied?
>>LISA: Yes.
Do I have to be perfect?
>>DOOLEY: There's nothing
wrong with always wanting
more so long as
you don't put off
your happiness for that more.
Be happy in the wanting.
And then that divine
sense of incompletion
will take that person
who has no stated goals,
but who lives and grooves
in their life, who's
out there pressing the flesh,
meeting their comfort zone,
exceeding their comfort
zone occasionally,
their life will
continue to improve.
Because this is just the nature
of the network of consciousness
alive, ever-expanding.
God never stops.
We never stop as parts of God.
>>LISA: Yeah.
But we want it instantly.
We want it now.
And that doesn't
happen necessarily.
>>DOOLEY: That's why I get to
do workshops and write books.
Because it is that simple.
But we need to cool our jets.
And we need to stop
passing judgment
based on what our physical
senses are showing us.
There is room for fine-tuning
this art of living your dreams.
And so there's work to be done.
>>LISA: So it is.
Let's take a look here
at Mike Dooley talking
about thoughts becoming things.
Take a look.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Have you ever heard the
expression be careful of what
you wish for because
you just might get it?
I bet you have.
In fact, not only
have you heard it,
but I bet you believe it's true.
You've also heard about
and believe in the powers
of positive thinking.
And no doubt you've heard
about the art of visualization.
You could probably
even share a story
or two of how visualizing has
worked wonders in your life.
There's a reason you've heard
all of these expressions.
There's a reason they resonate
for you and for virtually
every person, regardless of
nationality, on planet earth.
You know the truth, even if
you haven't yet given it words.
Instinctively, you
know that you're
powerful, worthy,
and deserving of all
that your heart longs for.
And instinctively,
you know that you're
a divine, magnificent
spiritual being for whom
all things are possible.
In three simple words--
>>DOOLEY: Thoughts
become things.
That's it.
That's the principle.
Thoughts become things.
Not sometimes, but often.
And not just your positive
thoughts, but the other ones
too.
Because it is an
immutable law as rigid,
as predicted, and every bit
as dependable as gravity.
In fact, with regard
to this principle
operating in your life,
you can't ever turn it off.
But this isn't bad news.
It's awesome news.
Because they're your thoughts.
And every minute
of every day you
get to choose exactly what
you're going to think.
And with this principle, you
can bring virtually anything
you can imagine into your life.
And it's not just limited
to material things.
You can imagine more love,
more joy, more laughter.
>>LISA: Oh, I love that.
We can never turn it off.
I love the certainty
that you have in this.
It is your belief system
and your conviction
that enables us to have the
same when you say, this is law.
And you live like that.
>>DOOLEY: I believe
really firmly--
and this may even come
off abrasively, what I'm
about to say, to some at first.
But I really believe that
the truth is absolute.
It is knowable.
It is benign.
And to those folks who say,
everyone has their own truth,
I want to cringe.
You are throwing your
power out the window.
To think everyone
has their own truth
is like, we'd be slipping
and falling around.
And walnuts would
turn into elephants.
And you could not bank
or depend on anything.
While there are a million roads
to Rome, not one of those roads
changes Rome.
And in this case,
Rome is the truth.
Everyone has their
own way to truth.
But what's so
vitally important--
and what I most want to
convey to my readers,
my audiences-- is
that this is absolute.
And this is a good thing.
This is great news.
This is that part
of God in you that
streams your circumstances,
your life, into place.
This is the power you have.
And to take anything and
use it to dilute this,
I think, patently obvious
truth of consciousness
creating reality is risking
a major setback in life.
>>LISA: So that's the truth,
consciousness creating reality.
>>DOOLEY: Absolute.
>>LISA: It's the
immutable truth.
That is Rome.
>>DOOLEY: That's Rome.
Nothing, nothing, nothing,
nothing can change that.
And somebody might say,
well, God could change that.
That's who we are alive here.
And in the adventure of life,
in these sacred hallowed jungles
time and space, to
see what can happen.
And again, that statement puts
God on the outside looking in.
There's no God or universe
on the outside looking in.
Which is not to say that
God isn't infinitely more
than me or you or
everybody alive--
infinitely, unimaginably more.
But it's not out there.
It's in here.
We are of God.
We are by God.
We are for God.
We are pure God.
And it is God's thoughts.
This is what we are.
Thinking, spiritual
beings of God
that form and craft this
magnificent adventure where
every single day, no matter
what happened the day before, we
can love and be loved,
create, and adventure.
>>LISA: All over again.
>>DOOLEY: --heal.
>>LISA: It's like this
is heaven on earth.
And not that heaven
couldn't be grander.
But it's pretty darn good here.
>>LISA: Well, then OK,
so challenging on this.
Thoughts become things.
I want a million dollars.
I know you've heard this before.
>>DOOLEY: You can have it.
You can have it.
>>LISA: Now?
>>DOOLEY: It's not
a spontaneous thing.
Something even more
miraculous happens,
Lisa, when you want
a million dollars
and you've bought the
ticket, bought the ticket
to play in these sacred jungles.
There's realities without time.
There's realities without space.
There's realities we could
never wrap our head around.
But here, clearly,
there's momentum.
We're living a communal
dream, if you will,
of seven and 1/2
billion co-creators.
And so there has to be kind
of an agreement, a grid--
like Greg talks
about, like Dr. Joe
probably talks about--
where they match science
to spirituality.
And the grid says that
Paris has the Eiffel Tower.
And there's not going to
be an Eiffel Tower here.
And the grid says that
there was a yesterday
and a today and a tomorrow all
springing from an eternal now.
So we bought a ticket where
there's these physical laws,
these energy coordinate points.
Where physically,
it will one day
be explained exactly how
our thoughts become things.
But until then,
we're in this soup.
And unlike a
nighttime dream, which
is otherwise identical
to the daytime dream,
except there's a lone dreamer,
not seven and 1/2 billion.
In a nighttime
dream, I can think,
gold coins and a
million dollars,
and it's in the palm of my hand.
In a dream where there's
this continuity that we agree
to called time and space both.
>>LISA: That's the
ticket we bought.
>>DOOLEY: That's the
But which does not limit us.
It just slows the
manifestation process down.
So instead of manifesting a
million dollars spontaneously,
the more miraculous thing
that starts happening
is its nearest equivalent.
And I mean equivalent.
I mean a million
dollars in gold coins,
or stock certificates, or
your business ballooning
overnight, blowing up.
The nearest equivalent
is being pressed to you
in the moment you
had that thought.
And to experience it, to
merge this now with that now--
we call the future--
you need to show up.
You need to get out.
You need to maintain
the thought--
>>LISA: The next step,
next step, next step.
>>DOOLEY: And the next step,
to kind of string the moments
together, you have
to vigilantly hold
that thought of a
million dollars.
And it's not easy.
It's going go out the window.
That's why you want to get
excited about it emotionally.
A million dollars,
great, a million dollars.
What's a million dollars?
A million, can I even
comprehend a million dollars?
It's lay flat sleep receipts
all around the world.
A million dollars is a home in
Florida and a home in Mexico.
A million dollars is freedom
for my wife and my daughter.
A million-- now
I'm dressing it up
and I'm feeling some passion.
And that's going to carry
me through the moments.
So it's not just the
thought that goes in one ear
and out the other.
And while I hold
that passion, I need
to do my best, which will
always seem insufficient.
I need to do my best to now
move towards a million dollars.
So buy the lottery ticket.
Start the business.
Expand the business.
Write the book.
Ask for a raise.
Move towards abundance.
You must, you must, in your own
way, in your own calculations,
do your best to
move towards that
which you want while
holding the vision,
while enjoying your life,
while giving yourself
permission to be happy now.
Because you've already
manifested so much
through you and everyone else.
And so you can enjoy the journey
and prepare to be astounded.
Just look at the knuckleheads
who have a million dollars.
You don't have to be the
sharpest tool in the shed.
You don't have to be
a goody two shoes.
You just have to have
the audacity to believe.
And believing in it will come
when you hold onto that thought
and move with that thought.
>>LISA: Then what
happens commonly--
and I've done this-- is
immediately those thoughts come
in, equally if not bigger.
There's no way.
You don't have it now.
How are you going to get there?
What is a million anyway?
Wait, that's a lot of zeros.
I'm at 10.
Then you move on.
>>DOOLEY: Am I being selfish?
Is it too materialistic?
Big money, big problems.
And yeah, you fritter it away.
But one of my
favorite epiphanies
of my life in these years, 19
now, that I've been teaching
is a recognition that
everyone can have,
before I'm done speaking, of our
innate inclination to thrive.
We are here as the eyes
and the ears of God
to just rock this joint.
I mean, this is why God
would want to be me and you.
And God most wanted to
be you when you were born
and most wanted to be-- we
are who God most wanted to be
and still most wants to be
for our mere presence here.
And where God goes,
God can have God's way.
I can have my way when I
understand wisely chosen end
results, I keep the energy,
and I understand at long last--
my favorite new teaching point--
my inclination to succeed.
Which means it's as if
my positive thoughts are
at least 10,000
times more powerful
than my negative thoughts.
And so you don't have to
be positive all the time.
You don't even have
to remember what
the dream was every single day.
Go out and enjoy your life.
Visualize no more
than once a day,
no longer than five minutes.
Let it go.
Get back to the here and now.
And the proof that will
help those watching achieve
the tipping point to recognizing
this crazy inclination
to succeed is taking
stock of our own lives.
We all smile more than we frown.
We all laugh more than we cry.
We want to say it's a jungle
out there in a bad way.
We want to say, oh, it's
survival of the fittest.
Eat or be eaten.
Everybody wants money.
Good luck with that one.
But it's like, no, look, you've
blown the lid off of survival.
Everyone watching right now has
>>LISA: Because
we're still here.
>>DOOLEY: We have clarity
more than we're confused.
We have health more
than we're sick.
We have friends more
than we're alone.
So a crazy degree.
And we have money more than
we're broke to a crazy degree.
I mean, we've never
been in a place
where there's been no
one to call in our life.
And we've almost never been in
a place where we're in the red
financially.
And when we realize this
propensity, this inclination,
to thrive and we kind
of reassure ourselves,
you want a million
bucks, you can have it.
You can so have it.
>>LISA: Well, that thriving
piece is important.
Because one would think that the
level that they thrive in life
is the million bucks.
It's better than
a million bucks.
That level of thriving and
loving and being alive,
if you really look at
it, exceeds a price tag.
And that's also--
>>DOOLEY: You're
not asking for much
if you want a million dollars,
if you want $100 million.
That we are here is so much more
than whatever we could do here.
I mean, you could have Oprah
Winfrey's net worth times 10.
And it doesn't compare to
the fact that you are you.
This unique precious
window through which
God, which is just the
bigger part of ourself, God
can peer out at her creations.
>>LISA: --can see.
>>DOOLEY: And the wonder of it
all that we are even breathing
is so mind boggling.
And joy can be found in that.
And then if you want to
decorate the tree with a million
dollars, or a new best
friend, or a rocking career,
you got it.
You can have it.
You can even worry.
You can be negative.
In my dark days, the
dark night of my soul,
I would speak at a rotary club.
They'd be very unappreciative.
They didn't get
thoughts become things.
This was 19 years ago.
Great organization.
But my talks 19 years
ago didn't go over well.
I'd go home and bad
mouth my life to my mom.
I'd bum cigarettes off of her.
I was miserable.
When is my life
going to take off?
And I still prevail.
Because I still would
visualize once a day.
I still had a vision board
to keep my spirits up.
I still would be
firm with myself
that it's like, you
are here for a reason.
You're inclined to succeed.
It's as if we're all pushed
onto greatness every single day.
And just reminding myself that
a little bit amidst my worries.
>>LISA: --changes
everything, right?
>>DOOLEY: Yeah.
It all happened.
My life is a fairy tale.
>>LISA: I love that.
Well, there's also
other things that you
can create with this, not
just money and things.
Let's take a look at this
video, where you can really
change the way
that you experience
a lot of things in your life.
Take a look.
>>DOOLEY: This is why
people think they need
to mess with the cursed hows.
Oh, I'm here physically.
I want to be there physically
in abundance with friends
and no credit card debt.
So I must physically
wrangle this whole thing.
Brain is too small to
figure out the hows
of any dream come true.
The brain's function
is to define what
you want in terms of the end.
The instant you
define the end result,
divine intelligence knows how.
And the sequence of
events necessary for there
to be a manifestation
that mirrors
the end in mind, the
thought, will play itself out
as we take action.
We only need to
have an end result,
show up, show up, show up.
Then the end will force the
circumstances of our lives
that will yield these so-called
coincidences, serendipities,
and happy accidents that will
bring about a manifestation
mirroring the starting point.
This is thoughts
becoming things.
It's not literal.
Doesn't happen in two seconds.
There is a morphing
of your entire life.
The circumstances
begin changing.
And the circumstances
change because you've
issued new marching orders
with a new end result.
And you showed up every day,
in spite of appearances,
so that all of a sudden you
could be in the right place
at the right time
experiencing that aha moment.
Who said-- woo hoo--
who said--
>>LISA: I love that part.
People really get so
excited about your words.
Because it makes so much sense.
Can you give us
an example of how
this has worked in someone's
life, other than just your own?
People that have told
stories and given you
examples of how this
really worked and showed up
in their life?
>>DOOLEY: Oh, a fun
story from so many years
ago was a woman wrote to me.
And she said that she was
reading Infinite Possibilities.
And I talked about
demonstrations and acts
of faith.
Now, this is another
financial one.
But you're right--
it works with love.
It works with money.
It works with healing.
There's nothing it
doesn't work with.
It's just that
illustratively when
we're talking about
a material world
and everyone wishes
they had more money,
it happens to be a very
handy point of reference.
So this woman was reading
Infinite Possibilities.
It was all about
thoughts becoming
things, creative visualization.
And she became aware of a
basketball bar sponsorship
where if anybody could
sink a basketball
from cross court
on one throw, they
would get from the
bar a million dollars.
And so she organized
a family meeting
where everyone was assigned an
act of faith, a demonstration.
In addition to visualizing
about winning the million
dollars, which her brother
was the one signed up
to throw the
basket, everyone was
assigned to pretend as if
it had already happened.
So it's called
the demonstration,
acting as if it has
already happened.
This is a little different than
baby steps in the direction
of your dreams.
This is like going beyond
and playfully pretending
that you're already living
the life of your dreams.
So one person was assigned
to the live entertainment
at the celebration party.
Another person was
assigned to sending out
invitations to all of
their friends and family
to celebrate the basket being
sunk in one shot cross court.
Somebody else was assigned
to alerting the media.
So everyone had a job.
And they all had to literally
do everything they could,
bar actually executing it,
in a playful, pretending way
to demonstrate their belief
that this was going to happen.
And of course, I'm
telling you the story
because Theo, her brother,
sunk the basket on one
throw across court, got a
check for a million dollars.
>>LISA: Oh my god,
it really happened.
>>DOOLEY: Yeah.
And that was a fast one.
>>LISA: Wow.
But they did it
in a playful way.
>>DOOLEY: Yeah.
And that's always
best, lighthearted.
And they added in
these demonstrations.
Like the story I shared
with Rhonda Byrne
that eventually made its way
into the book The Secret.
It was not in the
movie The Secret.
The woman who was at one of
my events in Sydney, Australia
said, Mike, I've brought
my dinner partner.
This is my manifestation.
And she proceeded to tell
everybody at the table
the story of her being
single for much longer
than she would like.
And she wanted to do more
than just visualize it.
So she playfully pretended
throughout her home
that there was somebody
she was sharing it with,
the man of her dreams.
So she stopped parking in the
middle of the two-car garage,
started parking on her
side of the two-car garage,
and made room for his
car, even though there
was no his car or him.
She cleaned out
a closet for him.
She started sleeping on her
side of the king sized bed.
She would occasionally set out
placemat settings for dinner
for two people, even
though it was just her,
and light a candle to boot.
And she pretended that there
was this great relationship
in her life.
And at the dinner
party, there he was.
I met the guy.
And he was her manifestation,
somebody obviously
in alignment with her desire.
Maybe three months later,
I got an email saying,
guess what-- we're engaged.
And then I was doing my book
Leveraging the Universe,
and I said, can I use your
story in my book Leveraging
the Universe?
And she said, yes,
and guess what--
we're already married.
So it works in love.
It works in play.
It works in money.
It works in health and healing.
Buy the shoes for
the ball that you
want to go to that
you're not going to.
Buy the shoes if you're
not fit enough to exercise.
But now you're serious
and you're going to do it.
>>LISA: That was my other
question is about health.
Can thoughts become
things when you
want to have a health
situation reversed,
or lose weight, or
have a healthier body,
or get motivated to work out?
Something like
that, how do you--
>>DOOLEY: Always
and only, our body
is our most intimate creation.
And I advise when
it comes to health--
more than just fitness--
but when it comes to health,
always play both
ends to the middle.
Do not forgo your normal doctor.
Do not forgo his or her advice.
Cover those bases.
And then go visualize, do
demonstrations, buy the running
shoes within their guidelines.
This positivity, this
demonstration towards--
I am going to be
able to walk again,
I am going to get outside of
the house again, I am fit,
I am recovering-- combined
with affirmations, combined
with vision boards, combined
with a sense of appreciation
and a recognition of our
inclination to succeed
will always be enough
to turn the tide
and bring about
health in a safe way
that you need not risk anything.
>>LISA: That's interesting,
because you can really,
I think it helps you with
these thoughts in your mind
all the time.
You won't go after
the chocolate cake.
You won't go after potato chips.
Because if you're constantly
reminding yourself of this
thought becoming
this fitter body
or this in-shape
or healthy body.
And the vision boards,
of course, help.
Because they're a visual.
And there's all sorts of ways
to do vision boards, which
is really exciting.
And there's apps for that.
And there's an app for
thoughts become things.
And that's really cool.
>>DOOLEY: Thoughts
from the Universe, yes.
>>LISA: Thoughts from
the Universe, yes.
And so that helps a lot.
>>DOOLEY: It all helps.
It's an art.
>>LISA: It's a
combination, right?
>>DOOLEY: You can succeed
without visualizing.
You can succeed
without affirmations.
But you cannot succeed unless
your thoughts are there.
So that's the key.
And if vision boards or
affirmations and demonstrations
help steer your mind there, help
prevent you from being fearful
and negative-- which,
there is room for that,
but if we can mitigate
it, let's do that--
then it all helps.
And it works for absolutely,
totally everything.
There's just too many
stories of cancer remissions,
and people living with a
disease for normal life spans,
that one has to say,
something's going on.
And it's not just
conventional medicine.
It's not just luck.
It's not just their genes.
It's their focus.
It's their attitude.
It's their energy.
It's their thoughts
becoming things.
>>LISA: Well, you say it works
for virtually everything.
When hasn't it worked?
>>DOOLEY: Ah, ah, ah--
this is fun and tricky.
Because there are some
things that I'll tell
you are impossible.
And that is making Trixie
fall in love with you.
That is saying, my book
will be a bestseller.
You need other people to
play that game with you.
And you can't be assured.
So there are some things
you can't make happen.
When it comes to specific other
people behaving a certain way,
it might work; it might not.
>>LISA: You said
there's gatekeepers.
>>DOOLEY: Right,
the gatekeepers.
When it comes to saying, this
is how my dream will come true
and you become a micromanager,
you can't see trends.
You don't know what the
currencies are doing.
You don't know the
political environment.
Just don't go there.
It might work.
You can sometimes
micromanage a cursed how.
Some people have said, I'm
going to win that race,
and they got the gold
medal in the Olympics
and they beat everybody else.
And some people said, that
book will be a bestseller,
and it became a bestseller.
But you don't have
to do it that way.
That's too much stress.
How many people said that book
will do it and it didn't do it?
Instead, say, I will have a
creatively fulfilled career.
I will live in
wealth and abundance.
I will be surrounded by
friends and laughter.
I will experience health
and healing like never
before in my life.
Everyone can have those things.
And that's all we
ever wanted anyway.
We just thought
we had to wrangle
the hows, the whos, the whens.
And that's when we
get in our own way.
>>LISA: The cursed hows.
So you can't really thought
and have it become a thing
to change the president, or
have somebody new elected,
or make a bestselling--
>>DOOLEY: No.
Those things might
work, might not work.
>>LISA: But what you can
do is go for the outcome.
What is the feeling you want?
Do you want freedom?
>>DOOLEY: Right.
Those big picture qualities.
Not everyone's going to
visualize the gold medal
and get it.
That can't happen there's a
very limited number of them.
But that's not happiness.
It could be a great goal.
Everyone can visualize
and manifest happiness.
Everyone can manifest
more friends.
a body that they love.
Everyone can manifest healing.
And that's all we ever
cared about anyway.
We just thought, I won't
be happy until I do that.
Well, good luck.
>>LISA: Yeah.
I mean, you're not
writing books on--
>>DOOLEY: That's
a lot of stress.
>>LISA: --on how your
thoughts don't become things.
You're writing books
about the positive,
how they can become
things, and how
to navigate through your
life with possibilities.
Then why would you
write the other book?
How not to create your life.
>>DOOLEY: No, no,
no, no-- we're here
to live deliberately
and create consciously.
And not that you have to
make something happen.
If you can just go into
the happiness mode,
go into the happiness mode.
But I know you have a divine
sense of incompletion that's
going to say, but
what about this?
And what about that?
it's not necessarily monetary.
But you want to expand.
God wants to expand,
become more, to be wiser,
to experience.
And when we've done it all
and been there everywhere
in time and space, well,
there are, I'm sure,
an infinite number
of other realms
where God is now expanding,
where we are now ready to go.
>>LISA: So this newest book
is the Beginner's Guide.
Tell us the story of this book.
>>DOOLEY: Well, by now, 19
years after my dark night
of the soul, I have
written about 3,000 Notes
from the Universe.
And if I may say
so, many of them
have some real nuggets in them.
And as you know, I am a
first-time, late-blooming dad.
I have a five-year-old daughter
that is my pride and joy.
And in talking
with my publisher,
we spoke on possible projects.
And I said, I'd really
like to write a book
with my daughter in mind.
>>LISA: Like a legacy?
>>DOOLEY: Like a legacy--
my experience is, family
doesn't read my books.
I'm the brother.
I'm the son.
I'm the dad.
>>LISA: That's the
case for a lot of us.
>>DOOLEY: I'm sure
I'll be the dad.
And it's like, oh, that's Mike.
So she probably won't read
my 16 books, or however
many more I write.
But if she was to read just
one, please, dear sweetheart,
just read one book.
I'll dedicate it to you.
--when you're an adult.
It would be this one,
A Beginner's Guide
to the Universe, where I've
written eight different letters
to her, that any
person could relate to,
sharing my own
epiphanies because
of her being in my life.
And I've shared 500 of
my best, best, best Notes
from the Universe.
And the best parts
of those notes
whittled down to kind
of just life lessons.
So they don't come across
as Notes from the Universe.
They're just life lessons.
And it covers the gamut
from relationships
to setbacks to
comebacks to everything
that one would need to live
in the most harmonious, joyful
life possible.
And so that's what it is.
>>LISA: That's a
beautiful thing.
And for anyone who wants to get
kind of the beginner's guide.
It's not just for your daughter.
You have a lot of--
>>DOOLEY: Yeah, yeah, of course.
So you know it's
done really well.
And I think it will continue
to do well and outlast me
in the sacred jungles
of time and space.
>>LISA: You're young.
Stop it.
All right, we're going
to go watch another video
talking about, and
really looking at, how,
your thoughts become things.
Take a look.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>DOOLEY: By understanding
the nature of reality,
we can then set out
to live deliberately.
No more hit and misses.
When it works, it doesn't work.
And sometimes it works,
but we wished it hadn't.
Listen to the ones who say, life
is hard and people are mean.
Listen to the ones who say
they have no free time.
These are their end results.
And it doesn't matter
that they didn't know
that they were the end results.
Your friend who says,
I can't lose weight,
I just can't lose
weight, is always right.
The universe is up there
watching and listening.
I heard you the
first 7,642 times.
Do not worry-- we're on it.
You will be in the wrong place
at the wrong time, predisposed
to the wrong food
by the wrong friends
with no willpower
and slow metabolism.
Gotcha.
[LAUGHTER]
[APPLAUSE]
We are literally the
eyes and the ears of God
come alive in the dream of
life, therefore pushed on
to greatness every single
day, inclined to succeed.
This is the nature of a life
in the illusions of time
and space, where each
and every one of us
has chosen to fleetingly
forget the truth.
You chose to forget those
things, to believe in the lies,
so that you could
have adventure.
So that you'd be gripped
by your passions,
so that you could
reach to perfect
and become more, and learn, and
fall in love again and again
and again.
Because after all, in
the blink of an eye,
you're going to wake back up
in the palm of God's hand.
>>LISA: Yes, that is so true.
That happens to us all the time.
When we repeat these thoughts
of what we don't want,
there it is.
>>DOOLEY: Yeah, marching orders.
There's no judgment.
There's never been any judgment.
The only judgment is our own.
Divine intelligence
loves us unfailingly.
So if we say, I
can't lose weight--
I see food and I gain weight--
the universe is like,
you keep telling me.
We're on it.
Don't you worry.
And so this is why I said
earlier in the other clip,
it's not just our
positive thoughts.
It's all of our
thoughts that equally
strive to become the things
and events of our lives.
So pay attention to
what you're saying.
Pay attention to
what you're thinking.
what you're shopping
for in the grocery store.
Are you buying the cheapest,
cheapest, cheapest stuff?
What we just said.
>>LISA: Be intentional about it.
So this is the next question.
If you really want to create
something, a lot of people
don't know their purpose.
They don't know what they want.
Have you heard this a lot?
>>DOOLEY: Oh, gosh,
so, so, so, so much.
And it's kind of
a flawed question.
Because it presumes
that there's something
you're supposed to be doing
or wanting, or a certain way
you should be growing, and
all other ways are wrong.
And it's like, you're
here to see what happens.
You kind of meticulously
designed from head
to toe this amazing vehicle
that would carry you
through this lifetime.
You picked your parents.
Sorry, everybody.
Maybe for the love they
would give you, maybe
for the love they
would deny you.
But you had a plan.
And that plan was
all about love.
That plan was all about growth.
Maybe that plan was to
kind of go down a path
so that you could be the
light bearer for others
who wouldn't have to go through
what you would go through.
There are only heroes.
There are only heroines.
But you designed this
vehicle, in large part
to see what you
would do with it.
Let me be a little
bit more analytical.
Let me be a little more artsy.
Let me be a little
more inquisitive.
more Forrest Gump.
--to see what would happen.
And then once you
live a lifetime,
I do believe we come back.
Reincarnation is true
and it's not true.
Because the whole notion
is based on a timeline.
And time is an illusion.
So it's false to begin with.
But maybe like leaves
on a tree, our soul
lives many, many times.
And so you have one lifetime.
And you learn certain lessons.
You have certain cravings,
certain things you didn't
do that you wanted to do.
And so you kind of rig the
stage for your next lifetime
so that you might go
more down this path.
And it would never be, I want
all of my lives to be rich.
I want to always be
gorgeous and good looking.
It's like, no, you didn't.
>>LISA: You want
to create contrast.
>>DOOLEY: The more contrast,
the more challenged, the more
opportunity, the more growth.
I mean, if everybody just
loved you wherever you went
and you won the lottery every
weekend, your life would suck.
>>LISA: That's interesting.
Yes.
Well--
>>DOOLEY: And so you
designed it so that you
can achieve certain marks.
And there's no purpose other
than seeing what will happen.
>>LISA: You think-- you
think your life would really
suck if every weekend
you won the lottery?
>>DOOLEY: I think
it would be boring.
I think it would
be really boring.
I mean, having moved into a life
with far greater wealth than I
was ever exposed to growing
up, I can tell you--
and many can tell you--
that it's not all that.
What did Jim Carrey say?
I wish everybody could
make $20 million--
>>LISA: --and lose it.
>>DOOLEY: --and
have everything they
ever wanted so that they
could see that that's not
what life's about.
It's just like,
immediately other things
fill your periphery.
Other awarenesses,
other shortcomings.
Oh, I didn't know,
and I could do better.
And then you immediately
grow in other directions.
So if you were just winning
the lottery and everybody loved
you, you would not be growing.
>>LISA: You wouldn't grow.
You wouldn't evolve.
>>DOOLEY: You'd be boring.
>>LISA: What you said about
reincarnation was interesting.
About it's an illusion because
it's not linear anyway.
Explain that and how it pertains
to thoughts becoming things.
>>DOOLEY: Ah.
Well, so the best way
to talk about time
is to fess up that it's
real when you're in it.
OK, it's real when you're in it.
>>LISA: That's true.
It feels that way.
>>DOOLEY: It's illusionary,
but so is our whole life.
So is the whole adventure.
It's illusionary.
But the more real it seems, the
more fear, and the more desire,
the more passion, and
the deeper the love.
And it's like, by fleetingly
believing in the lies of now
versus later versus past
versus future versus here
versus there versus
have versus have not--
all lies, made possible
by time and space.
But by fleetingly buying that
ticket that we've talked about,
you can all of a
sudden be gripped
with passion that
would not otherwise
exist if you knew that you lived
forever, if you kind of felt
all of the infinite
possibilities that
were swirling around you.
So by eating of the
forbidden fruit, which
is what we do by thinking
that time, space, and matter,
or the apple was real--
the original sin-- we are all
of a sudden on this journey,
on this adventure that's
made possible by those lies.
It's not about
piercing the illusion.
It's not about walking on water.
We came from that place where it
was all like, ha, ha, ha, smoke
and mirrors.
Now we're like, oh my
gosh, it's so real.
I want this.
I don't want that.
I need you.
I don't need you.
And that passion,
that emotion is
the juice that comes from
believing in these illusions.
And that make it possible to
feel like love isn't there
all the time.
Because it is
there all the time.
But by thinking it's
not there all the time,
oh my god, I want it
there all the time.
And then I fall in love.
And I feel love in a
way that I couldn't
feel when it's just
showering upon me
in greater realms than
where we came from.
To be here, we deny
ourselves that awareness.
And so game on.
And then it's a linear game.
OK, so we've got to
abide by the rules.
And so we believe in time.
And so I'll say in
one breath that all
of these leaves on the trees
are happening simultaneously.
But then there's the
implication that one life
will lead to the next life.
Which, I was aware
that I did that.
And somebody might be watching
saying, but wait a minute.
You just said there's none.
Well, just as
there's no such thing
as a time in the grander
scheme of things,
when you're living
a life, it's very
real inside that little bubble.
>>LISA: Yes, yes.
It feels like it.
>>DOOLEY: And when
you buy the ticket
of a series of lifetimes, if
you will-- we'll call it that.
I want to be all those leaves
on that tree over there
in that meadow.
Well, there's still going
to be the appearance
and the sensation of time and
the illusion of a lifetime that
preceded this lifetime
and the lifetime that
will follow that lifetime.
Again, all those lifetimes
are happening simultaneously
in a way that the brain is
not wired to understand.
And each of them is
believing in different pasts
and in different futures.
And the linear lie is
that we have one past.
You know that you
have multiple futures.
It depends on your decisions.
You also equally
have multiple pasts.
Parallels and probabilities that
each one of you think you're
the only one.
But it's so multidimensional
it fries the brain.
The brain was not designed
to ride those waves.
Figure out this lifetime,
this here and now.
And then we're going
to go back to all
of the other realms and
possibilities and awarenesses.
What's most important
for every lifetime--
while it's fun to
smoke on those ideas--
what's most important
is joy here and now.
>>LISA: It actually goes
hand-in-hand with the thoughts
becoming things.
Because those thoughts, they
can be happening simultaneously
in the divine in the right
order that need to happen.
They could ignite.
They could go away.
You could change your mind.
>>DOOLEY: It's
realizing that when
you have that vision of
travel partner with benefits,
it exists in another
realm right now.
It's real.
And that might sound
like a stretch.
And it might not be as
fleshed out as this.
But that reality becomes real.
And it's a matter
of merging this now
with that desired now, done
so through the mechanics
we've been speaking of.
The details, the
visualization, the baby steps,
knocking on doors.
>>LISA: All of that.
>>DOOLEY: And that's how
thoughts become things.
They spontaneously exist.
But we need to merge the nows.
>>LISA: So in your journey,
19 years now of doing this--
and I don't know how much
longer you're going to do it.
But you have a
driving force in you.
What is that?
What is that why
where you continue
to do this day in, day out?
It seems like you have fun.
>>DOOLEY: I do, I do.
That why has been me,
really, I have to say.
And that may come off wrong.
I really believe divine
selfishness is the ticket.
Because when we take
care of ourselves,
we shine our light
the brightest.
Our light will illuminate
the darkened paths of others.
I really believe it's a
sacred responsibility--
not to make a job out of
it-- to follow our hearts,
and to live our dreams,
and to be as grand as we're
capable of being.
And that's how we will most
enrich the rest of the world.
And that's been kind
of my driving thing
until my daughter was born.
And now more than
ever, me includes her.
I would also further define
divine selfishness as one
in which you automatically care
about other people and those
you love.
I mean, selfishness-- gaining
at the expense of others
is not selfishnessness.
That's stupidity.
So you're automatically
caring about other people.
But having a daughter, as
I do now-- she's five--
is my why.
But it's never to
the exclusion of me.
I still honor the
drummer within.
I still find plenty of time to
be my unique God expression.
But her joy, her laughter,
her little voice, her future
just is such a why.
>>LISA: It is.
It definitely takes
over, doesn't it?
You just get smitten
with the love.
Yes, yes.
And especially as pure as
they are when they're young.
It's really beautiful.
It's an incredible experience.
To be conscious about
it is also neat.
But I love that you called
that divine selfishness.
I've never heard
that term before.
>>DOOLEY: Divine selfishness,
yeah, divinely selfish.
Because I really would
run the other way.
Raised a Catholic.
I am not one today.
All due respect.
To me, the doctrine was
always to be selfless,
to put the needs of
others before your own.
God didn't come here to be Mike
Dooley so that he could honor
everyone else and their needs.
That's not living.
That's not life.
And it was a while--
it was in the last
15 years that I
realized that I could be
of service, and again,
in a selfish way.
I could do it my
way when I wanted.
Through my website, we've raised
$1.5 million for charities.
And I've given a
large chunk of that.
And I have found speaking in
jails and prisons and shelters
that it is so rewarding to
kind of plant a seed of hope,
reaching those who
have not yet been
reached with the kind
of truths that I share.
That we are divine creators.
That you're not being judged.
That it's going to be OK.
That God, the universe--
I'll use whatever
words they need--
loves you and adores you.
And you're needed in the world.
We want you here.
And to hear them
say, Mr. Dooley,
I've never heard anything like
that before in my whole life.
It's like, yeah, score.
Because one day, that thought is
going to grow into a beanstalk,
into a transformed life
that will touch more lives.
Service is the coolest
thing in the world.
But when you're
ready, on your terms.
>>LISA: Yes, absolutely.
Well, this was awesome.
It's life changing.
You can really, truly live
your life this way 100%.
Don't let those other thoughts
come in and cancel it out.
It's not worth it.
Thank you for teaching us
how thoughts become things.
>>DOOLEY: It's been a
great honor to be with you.
>>LISA: My honor, honestly.
And thank you so much
for being with me.
It is my honor to
have you join me.
If you'd like to watch more
inspirational programming,
you can check out "Inspirations"
on Gaia for other shows.
I'm Lisa Garr.
And until next time, I
invite you to stay aware.
[MUSIC PLAYING]